docs/c2c-with-service-discovery.md, before:

# Cats and Dogs with Service Discovery

This example demonstrates communication (HTTP and UDP) between a frontend and multiple backend applications using service discovery over the container network.

To see a visual representation of the steps taken in this demo, [see here](diagrams/diagrams.md).

We're assuming that you've [deployed to BOSH lite](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-deployment).
If you've [deployed to AWS](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-deployment) or another environment,
substitute `bosh-lite.com` below with the domain name of your installation.


## Prerequisites
You have [service discovery](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-app-sd-release) enabled in your deployment.

You have downloaded and installed the [CF CLI](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli)
in order to configure policies and create internal routes.

## Preparing to push your apps
To prepare to push your apps, you will want to target your CF org and space.
```
cf api api.bosh-lite.com --skip-ssl-validation
cf auth admin admin
cf create-org cats-and-dogs
cf target -o cats-and-dogs
cf create-space cats
cf target -o cats-and-dogs -s cats
```

Then clone this `cats-and-dogs-example-apps` repo into a directory. Set this directory as the `$DIR` env variable.

## Frontend
The frontend serves a form at `http://frontend.bosh-lite.com/`.

The frontend allows you to test out container network communication via two methods:

- connect to the backend via HTTP
- connect to the backend via UDP

In either case, the response from the backend to the frontend will be rendered as a web page.


### Deploying
```
cd $DIR/frontend
cf push frontend
```

## Use Case 1: Frontend Connects to Single Backend
### Backend
The backend will be pushed with no external route and therefore should not be accessible via the public internet.

Backend-A serves a picture of a typing cat on the TCP ports specified in the environment variable `CATS_PORTS`,
and responds to simple text messages on the UDP ports specified in the environment variable `UDP_PORTS`.

Backend-B serves a picture of a party cat on the TCP ports specified in the environment variable `CATS_PORTS`,
and responds to simple text messages on the UDP ports specified in the environment variable `UDP_PORTS`.

We will give both backends internal hostnames that will map to the app's container ips and can be used to connect
via container-to-container networking. An internal hostname is configured via the CF CLI `map-route` command, with
the domain provided set to the reserved internal domain of `apps.internal`.

#### Deploying (Diagram 1)
Backend-A
```
cd $DIR/backend-a
cf push backend-a --no-start --no-route
cf map-route backend-a apps.internal --hostname backend-a
cf set-env backend-a CATS_PORTS "7007,7008"
cf set-env backend-a UDP_PORTS "9003,9004"
cf start backend-a
```

Backend-B
```
cd $DIR/backend-b
cf push backend-b --no-start --no-route
cf map-route backend-b apps.internal --hostname backend-b
cf set-env backend-b CATS_PORTS "7007,7008"
cf set-env backend-b UDP_PORTS "9003,9004"
cf start backend-b
```

#### Usage

After both frontend and backend apps have been deployed, you can visit `http://frontend.bosh-lite.com/`
in a browser. You should see something like:

```
Frontend Sample App

HTTP Test
Backend HTTP URL: [....] [ Submit ]

UDP Test
Backend UDP Server Address: [....]
Message: [....] [ Submit ]
```


#### Usage with HTTP (Diagrams 3-6)

In the frontend app, in the `Backend HTTP URL` field enter backend-a's internal hostname and a cats port (`backend-a.apps.internal:7007`).
Hit submit.

You will see an error message saying the connection is refused. This is because the two apps have not been
configured to allow connections from the frontend to the backend.

If you see an error message saying `no such host`, service discovery is incorrectly configured.

Now allow access:

```
cf add-network-policy frontend --destination-app backend-a --port 7007 --protocol tcp
```

Now if you try again from the frontend:

```
[GIF OF CAT]
Hello from the backend, port: 7007
```

Doing the same thing with backend-b should result in a different cat (specifically, a party cat) being shown.

#### Usage with UDP

In the frontend app, in the `Backend UDP Server Address` field, enter the backend's internal hostname and UDP port
(`backend-a.apps.internal:9003`) and a message. Hit submit.

You will see an error message. This is because the two apps have not been
configured to allow connections from the frontend to the backend.

Now allow access:

```
cf add-network-policy frontend --destination-app backend-a --port 9003 --protocol udp
```

Now if you try again from the frontend:

```
You sent the message: hello world

Backend UDP server replied: HELLO WORLD
```

## Use Case 2: Frontend Connects to Multiple Backends
### Backend
We will use the two apps pushed in Use Case 1 and also create a third internal route that maps to both apps. When queried, the route should return both apps
as possible destinations.

#### Creating Route (Diagram 2)
Creating an internal route shared across both backends
```
cf create-route cats apps.internal --hostname backend
cf map-route backend-a apps.internal --hostname backend
cf map-route backend-b apps.internal --hostname backend
```

#### Usage

After both frontend and backend apps have been deployed, you can visit `http://frontend.bosh-lite.com/`
in a browser. You should see something like:

```
Frontend Sample App

HTTP Test
Backend HTTP URL: [....] [ Submit ]

UDP Test
Backend UDP Server Address: [....]
Message: [....] [ Submit ]
```


#### Usage with HTTP (Diagram 7)
When policy is configured for the frontend to reach both backend-a and backend-b on the same port, entering
the shared internal hostname and port (`backend.apps.internal:7007`) in `Backend HTTP URL` field will show
```
[GIF OF CAT]
Hello from the backend, port: 7007
```

Trying this multiple times should result in seeing both cat gifs returned (as both apps are routed via that hostname).

Commit message:

Have one app use manifest to define route
[#155643914]

Signed-off-by: Angela Chin <achin@pivotal.io>

docs/c2c-with-service-discovery.md, after:

# Cats and Dogs with Service Discovery

This example demonstrates communication (HTTP and UDP) between a frontend and multiple backend applications using service discovery over the container network.

To see a visual representation of the steps taken in this demo, [see here](diagrams/diagrams.md).

We're assuming that you've [deployed to BOSH lite](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-deployment).
If you've [deployed to AWS](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-deployment) or another environment,
substitute `bosh-lite.com` below with the domain name of your installation.


## Prerequisites
You have [service discovery](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-app-sd-release) enabled in your deployment.

You have downloaded and installed the [CF CLI](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli)
in order to configure policies and create internal routes.

## Preparing to push your apps
To prepare to push your apps, you will want to target your CF org and space.
```
cf api api.bosh-lite.com --skip-ssl-validation
cf auth admin admin
cf create-org cats-and-dogs
cf target -o cats-and-dogs
cf create-space cats
cf target -o cats-and-dogs -s cats
```

Then clone this `cats-and-dogs-example-apps` repo into a directory. Set this directory as the `$DIR` env variable.

## Frontend
The frontend serves a form at `http://frontend.bosh-lite.com/`.

The frontend allows you to test out container network communication via two methods:

- connect to the backend via HTTP
- connect to the backend via UDP

In either case, the response from the backend to the frontend will be rendered as a web page.


### Deploying
```
cd $DIR/frontend
cf push frontend
```

## Use Case 1: Frontend Connects to Single Backend
### Backend
The backend will be pushed with no external route and therefore should not be accessible via the public internet.

Backend-A serves a picture of a typing cat on the TCP ports specified in the environment variable `CATS_PORTS`,
and responds to simple text messages on the UDP ports specified in the environment variable `UDP_PORTS`.

Backend-B serves a picture of a party cat on the TCP ports specified in the environment variable `CATS_PORTS`,
and responds to simple text messages on the UDP ports specified in the environment variable `UDP_PORTS`.

We will give both backends internal hostnames that will map to the app's container ips and can be used to connect
via container-to-container networking. An internal hostname is configured via the CF CLI `map-route` command, with
the domain provided set to the reserved internal domain of `apps.internal`.

#### Deploying (Diagram 1)
Backend-A (example with internal route defined in app manifest)
```
cd $DIR/backend-a
cf push backend-a --no-start --no-route
cf set-env backend-a CATS_PORTS "7007,7008"
cf set-env backend-a UDP_PORTS "9003,9004"
cf start backend-a
```

Backend-B (example with internal route defined using CLI)
```
cd $DIR/backend-b
cf push backend-b --no-start --no-route
cf map-route backend-b apps.internal --hostname backend-b
cf set-env backend-b CATS_PORTS "7007,7008"
cf set-env backend-b UDP_PORTS "9003,9004"
cf start backend-b
```

#### Usage

After both frontend and backend apps have been deployed, you can visit `http://frontend.bosh-lite.com/`
in a browser. You should see something like:

```
Frontend Sample App

HTTP Test
Backend HTTP URL: [....] [ Submit ]

UDP Test
Backend UDP Server Address: [....]
Message: [....] [ Submit ]
```


#### Usage with HTTP (Diagrams 3-6)

In the frontend app, in the `Backend HTTP URL` field enter backend-a's internal hostname and a cats port (`backend-a.apps.internal:7007`).
Hit submit.

You will see an error message saying the connection is refused. This is because the two apps have not been
configured to allow connections from the frontend to the backend.

If you see an error message saying `no such host`, service discovery is incorrectly configured.

Now allow access:

```
cf add-network-policy frontend --destination-app backend-a --port 7007 --protocol tcp
```

Now if you try again from the frontend:

```
[GIF OF CAT]
Hello from the backend, port: 7007
```

Doing the same thing with backend-b should result in a different cat (specifically, a party cat) being shown.

#### Usage with UDP

In the frontend app, in the `Backend UDP Server Address` field, enter the backend's internal hostname and UDP port
(`backend-a.apps.internal:9003`) and a message. Hit submit.

You will see an error message. This is because the two apps have not been
configured to allow connections from the frontend to the backend.

Now allow access:

```
cf add-network-policy frontend --destination-app backend-a --port 9003 --protocol udp
```

Now if you try again from the frontend:

```
You sent the message: hello world

Backend UDP server replied: HELLO WORLD
```

## Use Case 2: Frontend Connects to Multiple Backends
### Backend
We will use the two apps pushed in Use Case 1 and also create a third internal route that maps to both apps. When queried, the route should return both apps
as possible destinations.

#### Creating Route (Diagram 2)
Creating an internal route shared across both backends
```
cf create-route cats apps.internal --hostname backend
cf map-route backend-a apps.internal --hostname backend
cf map-route backend-b apps.internal --hostname backend
```

#### Usage

After both frontend and backend apps have been deployed, you can visit `http://frontend.bosh-lite.com/`
in a browser. You should see something like:

```
Frontend Sample App

HTTP Test
Backend HTTP URL: [....] [ Submit ]

UDP Test
Backend UDP Server Address: [....]
Message: [....] [ Submit ]
```


#### Usage with HTTP (Diagram 7)
When policy is configured for the frontend to reach both backend-a and backend-b on the same port, entering
the shared internal hostname and port (`backend.apps.internal:7007`) in `Backend HTTP URL` field will show
```
[GIF OF CAT]
Hello from the backend, port: 7007
```

Trying this multiple times should result in seeing both cat gifs returned (as both apps are routed via that hostname).
